#### Meeting from: November 13th, 2019
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Daniel Sauble (@djsauble)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hernández (@claudiahdz)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- Issue: #58 What day/time should the alternating Open RFC call be?
- PR: #24 Unpublished modules should return 410 Gone
- PR: #23 Add Singleton Packages RFC.
- PR: #22 Add feature to show dependencies of a particular dependency
- PR: #20 powershell scripts for installed binaries
- PR: #18 Interactive audit resolver
- Issue: #65 [RRFC] turn off file name scrubbing for your own private registry

### Notes:

- [2] The poll showed that 2pm EST on Wednesday seems to be the best day/time for everyone (we won’t add alternating time slots for now)
- [3] Changing the response for unpublished packages from a 404 to a 410 will involve changes to the registry, but seems like a reasonable change. If an entire package name has been unpublished, we should still return a 404.
- [3] Deleting your lockfile and running npm install from scratch is not ideal because you should keep as much of your dependency tree locked as possible.
- [3] This is probably an npm@7 type thing, because if we get a 410, we’d have to unroll to figure out the ideal tree structure, which isn’t the end of the world but additional work.
- [3] If we have to create a new dependency tree that differs from what’s defined in your lockfile, we should fail so we don’t accidentally introduce dependencies you don’t want.
- [3] Instead of doing this automatically, we should add a new command that will update the lockfile for you.
- [4] Singleton on a package would cause dependency hell for all of my users.
- [4] React already does this, but there hasn’t been programmatic support in npm.
- [4] It would be really tempting if we added this feature to add the singleton property to React, because it breaks at runtime if you have multiple copies.
- [4] Potentially a better approach to this is peerDependencies, for which there’s another RFC already.
- [4] This comes down to who should own the tree shape of an application, the application developer or the module developer? Isaac thinks it should be the application developer since they have more context.
- [4] Isaac will close this RFC and move the conversation over to the peerDependencies RFC.
- [5] We’re going to need to make some deeper changes to `npm ls` in npm@7 (it’s slow). There’s no need to fully load in the package tree every time we run `npm ls`.
- [5] `npm ls` will tell you if something is extraneous or an unmet dependency, but there’s no need to read the node_modules folder to get that info, we can get that from the lockfile instead.
- [5] pnpm has a lockfile that is in the root of your project, and a separate lockfile in the root of your node_modules. Even if you install with --no-save, it always updates the node_modules lockfile.
- [5] The pnpm approach is appealing because then you just need to compare the two lockfiles, instead of traversing the node_modules folder.
- [5] Isaac is going to write an RFC describing how `npm ls` should change in npm@7.
- [5] Isaac is also going to write an RFC for lockfile v2 (which is partially implemented already).
- [6] PowerShell scripts require system permissions whereas CMD scripts did not, hence the prompt.
- [6] Isaac is unsure whether it’s a feature or a bug in PowerShell
- [6] See also: https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/470
- [7] Majority of CVEs are false positives, so the desire is to be more surgical in deciding which advisories/packages to not flag.
- [7] Cool feature, not a priority right now.
- [7] Arborist will give us a better way to load a tree, so the security microservice can be more specific in deciding how to treat the tree. At that point, an interactive resolver would be much easier to do.
- [7] The application author should be the one to drive the interaction, not module maintainers.
- [7] Let’s table it until after npm@7.
- Jordan wants to see funding take an array of things, because some packages have multiple maintainers and having to spin up a landing page kinda sucks.
- Jordan is going to write an RFC for this.
