#### Meeting from: November 27th, 2019
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Daniel Sauble (@djsauble)
- Craig Loewen (@craigaloewen)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- João Reis (@joaocgreis)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- PR: #68 RFC: Multiple Funding Sources
- PR: #527 Reverting "windows: Add preliminary WSL support for npm and npx"
- Issue: #470 [QUESTION] Necessity of Powershell Script Support for Global Packages
- PR: #24 Unpublished modules should return 410 Gone
- PR: #22 Add feature to show dependencies of a particular dependency
- PR: #20 powershell scripts for installed binaries
- PR: #18 Interactive audit resolver
- Open RFC @ Collaborator Summit in Montreal - Dec. 13th & 14th
  - Desired Outcomes?
  - Topics?
  - Onboarding
  - Participation
  - RRFCs
  - Please register: registration link

### Notes:

- [2] The idea is to take what the funding field supports, and make it support an array too.
- [2] Should the JSON output always be in an array now? For the non-JSON output, how do we dedup links if we take this approach? Performance and verbosity of output are concerns.
- [2] Maybe use --depth flag to control the verbosity
- [2] Performance shouldn’t be a concern going forward in npm@7 thanks to the new lockfile format (will vastly speed up the `npm fund` commands, and also flatten the tree)
- [2] One long-term solution is to have npm mediate the process of funding so you don’t have to click a hundred links, maybe have an npm landing page that handles the complexity rather than relying on the CLI.
- [2] In the near term, deduping is probably the best way to handle this (e.g. “if there’s an array, pick the first one).
- [2] Ruy and Jordan will pair on the implementation
- [3] There can be discrepancies when running a Windows executable on WSL, needs evaluation.
- [3] Darcy is okay with landing this revert in the next release of npm.
- [3] Can call into Windows as a workaround
- [3] This has exposed the fact that npm needs better testing around Windows, if this issue can be replicated can we create a test for it?
- [3] Craig will share the shell commands he ran to do it
- [3] Microsoft’s goal is to make both the Windows and Linux experience on Windows great for everyone, but they don’t always know how people want to use it. They want to understand the motivation behind the PR (if they make a test, it should reflect a use case that people want to support)
- [4] Removing label for now until there’s more discussion on the thread.
- [4] Maybe should pull the Windows folks (Craig and Yosef) into this!
- [5] TFKAR is planning to change the status code from 404 to 410 Gone. This is shipping in the next release.
- [5] Daniel will circle back just to make sure this was followed-up on.
- [5] Can remove from the agenda.
- [6] I want to make sure that what’s on disk matches what’s in my package.json. I don’t want to have to run `npm ci` and wipe out what’s there.
- [6] We definitely want to make sure we’re not breaking existing workflows unnecessarily in npm@7.
- [6] This PR will almost certainly land in npm@7 not npm@6, because the filtering problem they’re trying to solve could be accomplished more easily in npm@7.
- [6] Darcy will write a comment on the thread about the intent behind moving this to npm@7.
- [7] Should not have showed up on the agenda today, removed label so it won’t show up again.
- [8] The idea is that we want the ability to opt-out of audit results that you’ve acknowledged.
- [8] Removing from the agenda since we need more internal conversation about how to deal with this.
- [9] npm gets an hour (basically an in-person RFC call)
- [9] Using this as an opportunity to get more people to participate in these RFC calls
- [9] Open floor to see what things the community wants from npm!
- Daniel also talked a bit about npm/#71
- Jordan is excited about it because it provides a path to a world where auth is not sequestered within the npm ecosystem
