#### Meeting from: January 8th, 2020
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Daniel Sauble (@djsauble)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hernández (@claudiahdz)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- William Blankenship (@retrohacker)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- Issue: [FEATURE] prompt for module type as part of npm init 
- Issue: #48 [FEATURE] Expand the list of default ignored files
- PR: #77 Quiet down or silence non-errors in npm install
- PR: #76 rfc: Signed Packuments
- PR: #46 fix: A files list should not exclude bundled dependencies
- PR: #46 feat(git): add support for ::subdir in #committish
- PR: #73 RFC for npm run to traverse directory tree up to the root before failing
- PR: #71 RFC: Verified Account Linking
- Issue: #70 Open RFC Meeting - Wednesday, November 27, 2019, 2:00 PM EST
- PR: #68 RFC: Multiple Funding Sources

### Notes:

- [2] https://github.com/npm/init-package-json
- [2] We need to default to commonjs to continue functioning with the current version of ESM modules, that’s not up for debate.
- [2] Instead of an issue, we need a PR so we can discuss the approach taken (e.g. prompt?)
- [3] Need more eyeballs on this to create a more fully fleshed-out list of files to ignore during publishes.
- [3] Need to analyze which packages would be impacted by these changes and communicate with the package maintainers.
- [3] Would be nice to analyze the impact this will have on package sizes and general load on the registry. However, the primary goal is to help package maintainers avoid publishing files they didn’t intend to publish.
- [3] Another issue is switching branches and accidentally publishing untracked files. Need to ensure the working directory is clean.
- [3] Maybe have some sort of prompt which forces people to confirm before publish, which includes recommendations about potentially bad things in your working directory.
- [3] This is likely to break a bunch of CI builds, so maybe put it behind an optional flag to start in npm@6. We can change the default behavior later.
- [3] This is a breaking change so any change to defaults should be targeted at npm@7.
- [3] Let’s document this practice of introducing breaking changes behind a flag before changing defaults.
- [4] We don’t want to give a false sense of security if something failed that’s only evident from the log output.
- [4] Could turn this into an issue or other comment that’s more fully fleshed out.
- [4] Let’s update the description of this issue to better reflect the comments below (e.g. yarn and pnpm don’t actually have better output than npm).
- [5] We would need to backlog this work if we take it on, since it involves registry-side changes, but otherwise seems like a very positive thing to do.
- [5] Could add support to the CLI independently from the registry-side changes, to enable third-party registries could support this before we do.
- [5] Also need to work side-by-side with simple mirroring solutions for npm packages to make sure the community will have what they need.
- [5] Could add a check for this to `npm doctor`
- [5] Needs to be done prior to install otherwise you could be p0wned before the validation runs.
- [6] This may be handled by arborist in the future, Darcy will follow-up.
- [11] This is ready to be implemented.
- [11] This enables two approaches to sharing funding options. Either you can share a single link to a page that aggregates all your funding options, or just put all the different funding options in the package.json and have them show up on the CLI.
