#### Wednesday March 10th 2020
# Open RFC Notes

### Attendees:

- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Jordan Harband (@LJHarb)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Claudia Hernandez (@claudiahdz)
- Daniel Stockman (@evocateur)

### Agenda:
- Housekeeping
    - Introduction(s)
    - [Code of Conduct](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct) Acknowledgement
    - Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
- [PR: #103 RFC: Add npm workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/103)
    - Scope (initial support and subsequent workspace-aware commands)
    - Usecases (monorepos, multiple package management, etc)
    - Install
    - Subcommands
    - Read configs

### Notes:
- RFC focuses on 3 main aspects:
1. Reading config for workspaces out of package.json
(following lead of current support, ex. yarn)
2. Ability of CLI to install things properly
3. Definition of subset of CLI subcommands involved in workspaces
- The simplest first step towards workspaces using arborist would be hoisting everything to the top
- Monorepo approach vs multiple packages in different locations 
- The latter adds additional work to the initial implementation
- Compromise to document unsupported use cases/possible workflows for workspaces even if we don't intend to implement them on v1
- Agreement to properly define vocabulary around the feature: how do you define a workspace? a monorepo? etc
- Monorepo does not imply a particular source control system. It means I expect always checking out/track all these packages in one flow (ex. tap/istambul deps, istambul having all its deps on a single git repo)
- `package-lock.json` for every nested package on v2. Right now, everything is a single tree for Arborist and there's only one `package-lock.json` 
- Discussion again on: is workspace an isolated unit? a leaf package? a multi-package repository? monorepo vs multirepo
- Discussion on redefinition of terms:
```
workspace: 
(1) a child package work on it in isolation?
(2) this is the babel workspace and this is the pieces that should work with babel?
```
- Everyone fine with npm coming up with new terms that describe better the feature
- How do we unpublish workspaces?
- RFC needs a few edits to focus only on `v1` before ratifying


#### Workspaces v1
Expectations: 
 - monorepo-centric: multiple packages that each have a package.json and are intended to work alltogether
- actions are going to be done from the root of the package
- no dehoisting will happen yet

#### Workspaces v2
- arborist needs to know that  a node is a child package of a workspace and should not be hoisted

### References:
- v1 npm Workspaces (WIP): https://github.com/npm/arborist/pull/50
- Changeset's Dictionary: https://github.com/atlassian/changesets/blob/master/docs/dictionary.md
- PNPM's Workspaces: https://pnpm.js.org/en/workspaces
- Bolt's Diagrams of Projects: https://github.com/boltpkg/bolt#bolt
