#### Meeting from: January 22nd, 2020
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Daniel Sauble (@djsauble)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)
- Andre Eleuterio (@eleuterio_)
- Claudia Hernández (@claudiahdz)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Frederic Charette (@fed135)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- PR: #68 RFC: Multiple Funding Sources (Ratify? Update on progress)
- PR: #71 RFC: Verified Account Linking (Ratify?)
- PR: #76 rfc: Signed Packuments  (Ratify?)
- PR: #90 RFC: reduce lifecycle script environment size
- PR: #73 RFC for npm run to traverse directory tree up to the root before failing
- PR: #46 feat(git): add support for ::subdir in #committish
- Issue: #506 [BUG] npm audit places false blame
- Issue: #75 [FEATURE] prompt for module type as part of npm init
- PR: #92 RFC: Add staging workflow for CI and human interoperability

### Notes:

- [2] JSON output won’t change in a breaking way, however the human output is currently keyed on package names with the URL underneath it. With multiple funding sources, it doesn’t make sense to organize them this way, so we’ve inverted it, so the package names reside under the URLs.
- [2] Will wait to merge until the next Open RFC Meeting
- [2] Could potentially put this in a minor release if it’s ready two weeks from Tuesday
- [3] This RFC doesn’t cover the actual process of logging into GitHub or Twitter, but it’s the first building block to getting there.
- [3] Once you have this link, you could show on your package page a checkmark (or similar) to show if a GitHub repo has the same owner as the package.
- [3] Isaacs will give this a quick review before we ratify.
- [4] How do we handle the case where there are several registries or registry proxies? You may have multiple different keys for the same hostname.
- [4] The solution to this is to have the proxy re-sign everything (needs to be in the RFC).
- [4] Isaacs: Verifying dependencies can be really slow (it’s a lot of PGP). Since this should probably be default behavior, it needs to be fast.
- [4] Wes: I don’t think we should let this block our initial steps toward ratifying this, if performance isn’t ideal, we can improve it down the line.
- [4] Isaacs: In a Node program, we need to figure out how we can take a signature and a message, verify that the signature matches the thing, and alter npm and pacote to support this. That would be a path forward.
- [4] Needs to be two or three steps down the line toward implementation before we can ratify it. Let’s revisit in the next Open RFC meeting after identifying some technical steps to be taken.
- [5] Since lifecycle scripts will share the same environment, there’s no need to reread config for every script.
- [5] Jordan: Is it worth splitting the act of installing everything a project depends on from the act of installing a particular dependency? Sometimes we want the hooks to run (e.g. a post-install script that fails an install if some checks aren’t true), and sometimes we don’t.
- [5] Isaacs: Separating out a new hook that only runs when installing an entire project makes a lot of sense.
- [5] Jordan: I’d also still love to be able to run `npm test --no-pre-or-post-scripts`
[https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/77] Closing this out since a better solution may be to have a way for dependencies to tell the CLI what output is important or not.
- [9] Any package starting with `create-` is a template for `npm init`. This may be an opportunity for us or the package maintenance working group to provide new scaffolding which would look like an almost native experience.
- [9] Wes: What about moving `npm init` out into its own package to help it evolve more quickly?
- [9] Relevant links:
  - https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-pkg
  - https://github.com/pkgjs/
  - https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/75
- [10] Ben and Google have launched a tool called wombat-dressing-room which is another solution to the problem this RFC seeks to address.
- [10] Wes: There are a few existing providers of staging solutions for npm (e.g. Artifactory, GitHub Package Registry). It would be good to have an open test suite that other staging providers could run to ensure that they’re compatible with this feature.
