
#### Wednesday, April 8, 2020, 2:00 PM EST
# Open RFC Meeting - Deep Dive

### Attendees

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. Topic: **Dependency Resolutions** (install, audit, etc.)
    1. Why? What? How?
	1. Identify use cases
	1. Identify initial vs. long-term scopes
	1. Ref: [Yarn's implementation](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/)
	1. Ref: [RFC for Yarn resolutions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/56)
    1. Ref: [Issue for "what to do w/ unlisted deps"](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/47)
    1. Ref: [RFC for Yarn resolutions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/56)
	1. Ref: [RFC for interactive audit resolving](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/18)

### Notes

- [2.1] @isaacs **Overview of Desired Outcomes...** 
    - "a package manage should manage packages for you"**™️**
    - What are people using "resolutions" for?
    - How can we support the use cases/scenarios?
- [2.2] @wes' use cases (currently utilizing Yarn resolutions...)
    - Simple (ambiguous):
        - bug in transitivie dep & want to fix bug
        - transitive dep that I want to pin to a specific version
    - Simple (specific to React, Tyepscript etc.):
        - want to use & ensure all deps use React@16.9.11
    - Complex (specific to Node):
        - transitive dep (ex. --depth=3) solely updated to a 'specific', "good" version
        - wanted to filter out conflicting deps further up the logical tree 
- [2.2] @isaacs' use cases
    - Simple (ambiguous):
        - dedupe deps
    - Complex (Tap -> Ink -> React):
        - deep 'cli' dep using 'front-end' peer dep(?)
- [2.2] @ljharb use cases
    - Simple (ambiguous):
        - have a dep range tied to major versions (^ ~ *)
        - want one copy of dep
        - want to manually move ahead & opt-in to a new version of a peer dep where other peer deps may be "behind"
- [2.3] @isaacs' should "resolutions" be a 'package' or 'application' feature?
    - idea: resolutions stay at the top level
    - idea: resoltuions get added to package-lock and/or ignored in Packument
- [2.3] ...
- [Conversation]
    - @wes
        - we should try to avoid walking down the same road Yarn resolutions took
    - @ljharb ...
    - @isaacs 
        - React@16.x (has 16.9.1 -> wants 16.10.2) = [resolve]
        - agrees that we shouldn't create a DSL
        - using glob patterns isn't ideal (ie. Yarn v1's implementation)
    - @wes
        - lets get more community contributed use cases
        - globs don't make a lot of sense but they ARE ergonomic
    - @isaacs
        - nested packages may not work 'perfectly'
        - package-lock is an artifact stuck in time (post-resolved ideal tree)
        - if install w/ package-lock then 'resolutions' would be ignored
        - if root node has 'resolutions' && dep is pinned to a version what range should be used ??? (ex. root is React@^16.9 & dep is React@16.8)
        - resolution examples:
            ```json
            // updated, see below, should be "react@16": "16.1.2"
            "react@16": "react@16.1.2",
            "react@15": "react@15.2.x",
            "react@17.1.2": "react@16"
            ```
        - track that a resolution was applied in the metadata for that node in the lockfile so that `depValid` doesn't get upset.  (Maybe that should warn/info anyway?)
    - @ljharb
        - nesting objects:
            ```json
            "y@1": {
              "x@2": "x@2.1.3",
              "z": {
                "bar": "git://github.com/foo/bar.git#fixed-branch-awaiting-pr"
              }
            }
            ```
        - common use case: fixed a bug, sent a PR, need to point at our own thing
    - @isaacs/@ruy
        - should the string value just be a spec, without name?
            ```json
            "x@1": "1.2.3",
            "y@1": "npm:x@1.3.2"
            ```
    - @ljharb
        - would be weird if not supported, because the npm package arg spec supports it
    - @isaacs
        - should the `y@1 -> npm:x@1.3.2` be subject to the `x@1` resolution? I think no.
    - @ljharb
        - import maps made the same decision
        - tradeoff is that we forgo indirection (`x -> y -> z`) and end up with repetition (`x -> z, y -> z`)
    - @isaacs
        - then, in `react@17` example above, it should be `: "react@16.1.2"`, not `react@16`
        - indirection means we can have loops, that gets bad:
            ```json
            "x@1": "x@2",
            "x@2": "x@1"
            ```
    - same key as yarn uses, but now we're doing a different thing?  who owns package.json?
        - npm/node hold package.json in trust on behalf of its owners, the JS community
        - we're not doing the yarn thing, this is a different thing, so options include:
            - use a different key name
            - translate on first use (somehow?)
            - just go ahead and break (probably bad)
        - will explore in npm resolutions RFC

- [Actions]
    - Reach out to community/Yarn (Mael &/or others)
    - Write RFC describing solution above
